doc(release): cordova-ios 7.0.0 (#1321)
apache/cordova-docs: www/_posts/2023-07-10-cordova-ios-7.0.0.md

---
layout: post
author:
    name: Bryan Ellis
title:  "Cordova iOS 7.0.0 Released!"
categories: announcements
tags: news releases
---

We are happy to announce that we have just released `Cordova iOS 7.0.0`! This is one of Cordova's supported platforms for building iOS applications.

* [cordova-ios@7.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cordova-ios)

## Release Highlights

**To upgrade:**

```bash
cordova platform remove ios
cordova platform add ios@7.0.0
```

**To install:**

```bash
cordova platform add ios@7.0.0
```

**BREAKING CHANGES:**

* **Removal of `podspec` type from `framework` tag**

    Since Cordova-iOS 5.0.0, the new `podspec` tag was added to improve the readability and support of features that CocoaPods provided.

    This release officially removes the old `type="podspec"` implementation of the `framework` tag. If you maintain plugins and still using the `framework` tag to load pod specs, it is recommended to migrate to the newer implementation.

    For implementation specifications, please see our [Apache Cordova - Podspec](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/dev/plugin_ref/spec.html#podspec-) docs.

> * **Removed default `CONFIGURATION_BUILD_DIR` overrides**

Reviewer: I think the important thing to mention here is the new output directories

Author: Resolved in: https://github.com/apache/cordova-docs/pull/1321/commits/405375f5415928328f2d35042ba5e93e441a9293

* **Node Support**

    We have dropped support for Node 14.x and increase the minimum Node requirement to greater than or equal to 16.13.0.

> * **Dropped Platform Binraries**

Reviewer: `Binraries` -> `Binaries`

Author: Resolved in: https://github.com/apache/cordova-docs/pull/1321/commits/405375f5415928328f2d35042ba5e93e441a9293

    We no longer supply or package platform-centric workflow binraries in the `cordova-ios` npm package or GitHub repository.

* **Rename `Images.xcassets` to `Assets.xcassets`**

* **Remove deprecated API `colorFromColorString` from `CDVViewController`**
* **Privatized the `CDVCommandDelegateImpl` class.**

**New Features:**

* **Added `LimitsNavigationsToAppBoundDomains` preference configuration**

    This preference allows you to use cookie authentication or browser APIs but requires the value to be set to `YES`. The default value is `NO`.

> * **Support Apple Cloud Distribution Signing**

Reviewer: I'll try to write something for this tomorrow

Reviewer: Apple Cloud Distribution Signing allows using AppStore Connect API keys to automatically manage the distribution signing certificate and provisioning profiles. With Cordova-iOS 7.0.0, you can specify AppStore Connect API credentials in `build.json` or as command-line parameters to the `cordova`  tool.

These options are `authenticationKeyPath`, `authenticationKeyID`, and `authenticationKeyIssuerID`, and they work in combination with the existing `automaticProvisioning` option.

> * **Enable Mac Catalyst Support**

Reviewer: We probably want to say something like this:

> Apps built with cordova-iOS can now be made to target macOS using the Catalyst runtime. You can enable this by checking the "macOS - Catalyst" checkbox in Xcode project settings, and then building for a macOS target in Xcode.
>
> Currently, building for Catalyst from the command-line `cordova` tool is not supported.

Author: Resolved in: https://github.com/apache/cordova-docs/pull/1321/commits/405375f5415928328f2d35042ba5e93e441a9293

---
layout: post
author:
    name: Bryan Ellis
title:  "Cordova iOS 7.0.0 Released!"
categories: announcements
tags: news releases
---

We are happy to announce that we have just released `Cordova iOS 7.0.0`! This is one of Cordova's supported platforms for building iOS applications.

* [cordova-ios@7.0.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cordova-ios)

## Release Highlights

**To upgrade:**

```bash
cordova platform remove ios
cordova platform add ios@7.0.0
```

**To install:**

```bash
cordova platform add ios@7.0.0
```

> **BREAKING CHANGES:**

Author: Changed layout here: https://github.com/apache/cordova-docs/pull/1321/commits/b501f04d4b84a1e4685c112620d9b5a9fbdaac45

* **Removal of `podspec` type from `framework` tag**

    Since Cordova-iOS 5.0.0, the new `podspec` tag was added to improve the readability and support of features that CocoaPods provided.

    This release officially removes the old `type="podspec"` implementation of the `framework` tag. If you maintain plugins and still using the `framework` tag to load pod specs, it is recommended to migrate to the newer implementation.

    For implementation specifications, please see our [Apache Cordova - Podspec](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/dev/plugin_ref/spec.html#podspec-) docs.

* **Removed default `CONFIGURATION_BUILD_DIR` overrides**

    This will change the location of where the output files are generated.

    * `build/emulator` will become `build/Debug-iphonesimulator`
    * `build/device` will become `build/Release-iphoneos`

>     This will help ensure that debug and release files are never mixed up in the same directory and hypothetically prepare for `macos` builds.

Author: Fixed here: https://github.com/apache/cordova-docs/pull/1321/commits/448cebfce1a30585bb16adbf2a65951a5d4142a4

> * **Node Support**
> 
>     We have dropped support for Node 14.x and increase the minimum Node requirement to greater than or equal to 16.13.0.

Reviewer: Slight preference to say NodeJS instead of just Node:

```suggestion
* **Update supported NodeJS versions**

    We have dropped support for NodeJS 14.x and increase the minimum NodeJS requirement to greater than or equal to 16.13.0.
```

* **Dropped Platform Binaries**

>     We no longer supply or package platform-centric workflow binaries in the `cordova-ios` npm package or GitHub repository.

Reviewer: Should add a line here like "Please use the `cordova` CLI tool for managing your Cordova project plugins and platform configuration."

* **Rename `Images.xcassets` to `Assets.xcassets`**

* **Remove deprecated API `colorFromColorString` from `CDVViewController`**

> * **Privatized the `CDVCommandDelegateImpl` class.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Remove the `CDVCommandDelegateImpl` class from public API**
```
